<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//IETF//DTD HTML//EN">
<html>
<head>
  <title>How to Review Papers</title>
</head>
<body background="grey_dots.gif" link="#0000ff" text="#000022"
 vlink="#0055cc">
<div align="center"><big><big>How to Review Papers</big></big>&nbsp;
<center></center>
<br>
<div align="left">Loosely adapted from the Interaction Lab page
(obsolete page was <a
 href="http://www-robotics.usc.edu/%7Eagents/reviewing.html">here)</a>
at
USC<br>
</div>
</div>
<p> </p>
<ul>
  <li> A review should always be polite, respectful to the author(s),
and
helpful for improving the paper, regardless of whether you recommend
accepta&nbsp;</li>
  <li>Make sure that your comments give the reasons for your
recommendation.nce
or rejection.</li>
  <li>Try to give, in terms of quality, the kind of review you would
like
to receive for your own work.<br>
  </li>
  <li>Keep the original paper you reviewed for a few months (3 in case
of
conferences, up to 9 in case of journal papers) so that you can discuss
your
review in case any controversy arises.</li>
  <li>Do not distribute submitted papers, they are meant to be
confidential<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>Start the review with one or two sentences summarizing the paper.
  </li>
  <li> Communicate clearly the strengths and weaknesses of the paper. </li>
  <ul>
    <li> If you feel the author(s) should be aware of related work,
provide
specific references.</li>
    <li>Are the abstract and title accurate?</li>
    <li>Is the paper easy to read? &nbsp;In conferences, it should be
easy
to read for someone in the specific area; for journals it should be
easy
to read for anyone in a wider audience.</li>
    <li>How innovative are the ideas (remember that journals are
usually
archival, that is, shorter versions of the paper could have previously
appeared
in a conference)</li>
  </ul>
  <li>Give an overall assessment of the paper</li>
</ul>
Here are some (transcribed) tips for paper reviewing from Allan Newell:
<blockquote>
  <p> When we get a paper to review, at the beginning we should always
have as the default that we accept the paper. While reading the paper,
we may
start raising specific objections along the issues in the review form,
namely
the goals are not stated, the system is not well described, the
approach
is not novel or not validated, etc. etc. </p>
  <p> Each objection weighs a little against our initial default
acceptance. Rejecting a paper is to see if these objections weigh more
than our threshold,
based on our experience with other other conferences, papers, and
advice
from the specific conference. (Of course, the review can also raise the
initial
default acceptance, and then it's even a clearer accept.) </p>
  <p> One word of care that I recall: It may happen that we raise
either unjustified objections or support to a paper. In particular in
AI <b>[dm:
actually in any field]</b>, it may be rather common that we completely
"disagree"
or "agree" with the paper's approach/results. We have to be very
careful,
as much as possible, not to include objections or support that
corresponds
to subjective, or sometimes dogmatic, opinions about the work. </p>
</blockquote>
<br>
<br>
</body>
</html>
